Helpful hints for Positron on Workbench (#18)
posit-dev/positron-website: workbench.qmd

---

> title: "Positron on Workbench"

Reviewer: I also think it's worth calling out Python on the PATH and resource profiles. I'll add some language in this comment thread.

---

Positron is available as a preview feature on [Posit Workbench](https://posit.co/products/enterprise/workbench/) as of its 2024.12.0 release. Important information about using Positron on Posit Workbench is available in the Workbench documentation [for admins](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/2024.12.0/positron_sessions/) and [for users](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/user/2024.12.0/positron/getting-started/), but we also want to highlight a few ways to have the best possible experience during this preview period.

## Install binary R packages on Workbench

> Posit Workbench runs on Linux, but CRAN doesn't build Linux binaries for R packages. You _can_ install R packages using the default configuration, but you will likely find the process extremely slow. Instead, consider using a CRAN-like repository that provides binaries for your Linux architecture, such as [Posit Package Manager](https://packagemanager.posit.co/) and set that via `options()`. For example, if your Workbench is installed on Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy), you would use:

Reviewer: I would probably link directly to: https://packagemanager.posit.co/client/#/repos/cran/setup

---
title: "Positron on Workbench"
---

> Positron is available as a preview feature on [Posit Workbench](https://posit.co/products/enterprise/workbench/) as of its 2024.12.0 release. Important information about using Positron on Posit Workbench is available in the Workbench documentation [for admins](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/2024.12.0/positron_sessions/) and [for users](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/user/2024.12.0/positron/getting-started/), but we also want to highlight a few ways to have the best possible experience during this preview period.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Positron is available as a preview feature on [Posit Workbench](https://posit.co/products/enterprise/workbench/) as of its 2024.12.0 release. Important information about using Positron on Posit Workbench is available in the Workbench documentation [for administrators](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/2024.12.0/positron_sessions/) and [for users](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/user/2024.12.0/positron/getting-started/), but we also want to highlight a few ways to have the best possible experience during this preview period.
```

Reviewer 2: Also - Workbench hasn't released yet so we will likely want to hold this PR until its release.

Reviewer 3: @juliasilge The hints have been moved over to the Workbench User Guide and are available at: https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/user/2024.12.0/positron/getting-started/!

Now that the main content is in the Workbench docs, maybe we just need this blurb? We could link directly to https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/user/2024.12.0/positron/reference/other-resources.html in addition to the User Guide and Admin Guide links already in this blurb.

## Install binary R packages on Workbench

> Posit Workbench runs on Linux, but CRAN doesn't build Linux binaries for R packages. You _can_ install R packages using the default configuration, but you will likely find the process extremely slow. Instead, consider using a CRAN-like repository that provides binaries for your Linux architecture, such as [Posit Package Manager](https://packagemanager.posit.co/client/#/repos/cran/setup) and set that via `options()` in R. For example, if your Workbench is installed on Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy), you would use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Posit Workbench runs on Linux, but CRAN doesn't build Linux binaries for R packages. You can install R packages using the default configuration, but it's likely that the process is extremely slow. Instead, consider using a CRAN-like repository that provides binaries for your Linux architecture, such as [Posit Package Manager](https://packagemanager.posit.co/client/#/repos/cran/setup) and set that via `options()` in R. For example, if Workbench is installed on Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy), you would use:
```

```r
options(repos = c(CRAN = "https://packagemanager.posit.co/cran/__linux__/jammy/latest"))
```

> If you run this one time, you will set your `options` for the current R session. If you add this code to the `.Rprofile` in your home directory on Workbench, it will apply to all your R sessions.

Reviewer 2: I don't want to butcher the PR because I haven't given the rest of the guide a review but this is future tense. We strive to write the product doc in active voice as much as possible (it is a disaster and a WIP). So, I will just comment here vs. suggesting a rewrite here.

Follow along [on GitHub](https://github.com/posit-dev/positron/issues/5318) to learn about our plans for a better solution in the long term.

### Resource profiles

If your administrator has configured [resource profiles](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/getting_started/installation/kubernetes_installation.html#setup-resource-profiles) on Posit Workbench, you should allocate at least 4 GB of RAM when starting Positron sessions.

> We expect to make performance improvements in the future to decrease the memory needs of Positron. Follow along [on GitHub](https://github.com/posit-dev/positron/issues/5050) to learn about our plans for a better solution in the long term.

Reviewer 2: https://positpbc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ENG/pages/594509972/Posit+Documentation+Style+Guide#Links[inlineExtension]

### Python discovery

We plan to add admin configuration to set defaults for both Python and R interpreters, as well as to control interpreter discovery. In the meantime, we suggest adding [Python interpreters appropriate for use in Workbench to the `PATH`](https://docs.posit.co/ide/server-pro/python/configuring_default.html) to ensure Positron can find and use those Python interpreters.

Follow along [on GitHub](https://github.com/posit-dev/positron/issues/3574) to learn about our plans for a better solution in the long term.

> :::{.callout-note}

Reviewer 2: Voiceover doesn't seem to recognize inline links tied to headings/files. We tested it earlier. I would change this:
 [directly to the Positron team](/feedback.qmd)
 to 
Use the Feedback and Users to provide feedback directly to the Positron team.
